+++
title = "Passwords"
description = "How to use passwords."
[taxonomies]
tags = ["100 days to offload", "Security"]
+++

Password is something everyone has a relationship with, but very few knows how
to treat them. This post will touch briefly on how to make good passwords and
how to store them.

**NOTE**: This post was originally an article living in my now removed digital
garden.

## Getting started

### 0. Use a strong password

And don't use the same password multiple places.

Everyone has heard this multiple times before, and it really makes sense, but in
practise it's not that easy â€“ at least not if you are supposed to remember them
all in your head.

### 1. Use a password manager

What is a password manager? Software that manages your passwords for you!

Because it's impossible to remember all your passwords, since most of us use
more than 3-4 services.

The usual recommendations are usually the open source ones,
[KeePassXC](https://keepassxc.org/) for locally stored passwords, and
[Bitwarden](https://bitwarden.com) if you want a seamless experience via the
cloud.

### 2. Create a strong passphrase as a Master Password

**Master Passwords** are important when it comes to password managers, it is the
main key to open your vault.

#### What is a Passphrase

A passphrase consists of multiple words, commonly sepearated by a special
character. The words in the passphrase should be irrelevant to each other.

A bad example would be `apple*orange*kiwi`, because all of those words have one
thing in common, fruits!

#### 2.1 How to create a strong passphrase?

You can either use your password manager to help you out or create one yourself.
You create one by using _at least_ 3 random words, one or more special
characters to sepearate the words and add a random number somewhere for added
strength.

I usually recommend a specific method to get started quick; pick 3 or more
random categories, like this example:

1. fruits
1. car manufactures
1. furniture

Then I pick the special character, I don't recommend `!` as this is the most
common one, pick `=`, `[` or something more random. And lastly I pick a random
number `18`. It's important to note that you should know how to type the special
character on either Mac or Windows keyboards.

With the steps above I could've put together this passphrase;

`Broccoli[Volvo[Closet18`

With a passphrase like this you can write down the categories you picked earlier
and store them somewhere safe. Because it would be possible for you to know
which words you accosiated with each category in your passphrase.

### 3. Use a Password Manager for all passwords

Update your passwords for all the services you use, use the auto generated
passwords provided by the manager.

**NOTE**: Don't try to change them all at once, you will get tired and forget
about the rest.

### 4. Use Multi-Factor Authentication when available

Also known as 2FA/MFA/Two-factor Authentication.

Use this when available. Sometimes the services we use store our passwords in
plaintext, which makes us very vulnernable for leaks and/or attacks.
