+++
title = "Revisting paper notes"
description = "What has happend after writing paper notes for more than a year."
[taxonomies]
tags = ["Note-taking", "100 days to offload"]
+++

Last year I wrote about how I [went back to paper notes][prev_post] for my
note-taking. I'm happy to share that I have been writing consistently ever since
I wrote that post. There are some days where I write a lot and there are days
where I just have a few bullets and that's OK.

I keep finding it easier to flush out ideas in my notebook than digitally, it's
on hand and I don't have to context-switch other than to bring out the notebook.
I try to have the notebook with me everywhere I go, I use it in meetings, when I
take the dog out for walks etc.

One of the things I really like about having the notebook at hand is that if I
remember something I just pull out my notebook and write it down immediately
instead of having to try to remember later. I'm off-loading a memory-process for
my brain so that I can focus on other things, and when I have time I look
through my notes and find that note from earlier I process it.

Some of my co-workers have started to notice when I do take notes during
meetings and conversations and they refer back to like: "Can you check your book
if <that> was what we discussed during the meeting" etc. And most times my notes
have been helpful. I also draw simple diagrams whenever needed so it helps me
visualise both for myself and others.

Whenever I get to the end of the day and I haven't been able to get to a
particular note or todo in my notebook I forward it to the next day or the next
fitting day depending what the actual note or todo is.

I'm really grateful for stumpling over Tom MacWright's post about paper notes.
It really inspired and helped me. It made me realise that simple things might
work better.

[prev_post]: @/blog/2022-04-10-paper-notes/index.md
